docs - substring (#25667)
metabase/metabase: docs/questions/query-builder/expressions/substring.md

## Accepted data types

| [Data type](https://www.metabase.com/learn/databases/data-types-overview#examples-of-data-types) | Works with `substring`  |
| ----------------------- | -------------------- |
| String                  | ✅                   |
| Number                  | ❌                   |
| Timestamp               | ❌                   |
| Boolean                 | ❌                   |
| JSON                    | ❌                   |

## Limitations

`substring` extracts text by counting characters from left to right. If you need to extract text based on some more complicated logic, try [`regexextract`](../expressions-list.md#regexextract).

And if you only need to clean up extra whitespace around your text, you can use the [`trim`](../expressions-list.md#trim), [`lefttrim`](../expressions-list.md#lefttrim), or [`righttrim`](../expressions-list.md#righttrim) expressions instead.

## Related functions

This section covers functions and formulas that work the same way as the Metabase `substring` expression, with notes on how to choose the best option for your use case.

- [SQL](#sql)
- [Spreadsheets](#spreadsheets)
- [Python](#python)

### SQL

> In most cases (unless you're using a NoSQL database), questions created from the [notebook editor](https://www.metabase.com/glossary/notebook_editor) are converted into SQL queries that run against your database or data warehouse. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless you're using a NoSQL database, when you run a question that you created using the [notebook editor](https://www.metabase.com/glossary/notebook_editor), under the hood Metabase will convert your graphical query settings (your filters, summaries, etc.) into SQL code, and run that SQL query against your database to get your results.
```

If our [sample data](#getting-a-substring-from-the-left) is stored in a relational database:

```sql
SELECT
    mission_id,
    substring(mission_id, 9, 3) AS agent
FROM

>     this_message_will_self_destruct;

Reviewer: !

```

is equivalent to the Metabase `substring` expression:

```
substring([Mission ID], 9, 3)
```

### Spreadsheets

If our [sample data](#getting-a-substring-from-the-left) is in a spreadsheet where "Mission ID" is in column A,

```
=mid(A2,9,3)
```

is equivalent to the Metabase `substring` expression:

```
substring([Mission ID], 9, 3)
```

### Python

> Assuming the [sample data](#getting-a-substring-from-the-left) is in a dataframe column called df,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming the [sample data](#getting-a-substring-from-the-left) is in a dataframe column called `df`,
```
